Blog - azure service fabric setup (#932)
DataDog/dd-trace-dotnet: docs/blog/2020-09-15-datadog-apm-in-azure-service-fabric.md

# Datadog .NET APM in Service Fabric

*This guidance is in an alpha state, and is not officially supported*

> *However, if you try it, we would love to hear your feedback.*

Reviewer: We should add a feedback link.

> This article contains guidance for enabling APM on applications built with [Microsoft Azure Service Fabric](https://azure.microsoft.com/services/service-fabric/). The quickstart project contains a single application with multiple services demonstrating the basic concepts of service communication and use of reliable dictionaries.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This article contains guidance for enabling APM on .NET applications built with [Microsoft Azure Service Fabric](https://azure.microsoft.com/services/service-fabric/). The quickstart project contains a single application with multiple services demonstrating the basic concepts of service communication and use of reliable dictionaries.
```

> For a more in depth tour with the sample used for this demo, visit: [Service Fabric .NET quickstart](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/service-fabric/service-fabric-quickstart-dotnet)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For a more in-depth tour with the sample used for this demo, visit: [Service Fabric .NET quickstart](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/service-fabric/service-fabric-quickstart-dotnet).
```

More info on Service Fabric:
 - [Documentation](https://docs.microsoft.com/azure/service-fabric/)
 - [Service Fabric sample projects](https://azure.microsoft.com/resources/samples/?service=service-fabric)
 - [Service Fabric open source home repo](https://github.com/azure/service-fabric)
 

> There are two particular requirements for enabling Datadog in Azure Service Fabric: Deploying the datadog agent, and installing the .NET Tracer

Reviewer: ```suggestion
There are two particular requirements for enabling Datadog in Azure Service Fabric: Deploying the Datadog Agent, and installing the .NET Tracer.
```

> The datadog agent is a standalone docker container which exists as a service.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The Datadog Agent is a standalone Docker container which exists as a service.
```

The .NET tracer requires including some scripts with a deployed service to install the .NET Tracer on your clusters.
 

> ## Create a service fabric application

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Create a Service Fabric application
```

> If you already have a service fabric application, you can skip ahead to `Setting up the datadog agent`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you already have a Service Fabric application, you can skip ahead to [_Setting up the Datadog Agent_](#setting-up-the-datadog-agent).
```

Otherwise, here is one way to setup a Service Fabric Application in Visual Studio:

> ![Create a service fabric project](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/1801443/93098850-5079fd80-f675-11ea-90d6-7573b7faef68.png)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
![Create a Service Fabric project](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/1801443/93098850-5079fd80-f675-11ea-90d6-7573b7faef68.png)
```

Start with a stateless ASP.NET Core application, and use MVC as a template.

![Create a stateless ASP.NET Core application](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/1801443/93099063-959e2f80-f675-11ea-805c-eb627e2b9e53.png)

> ## Setting up the Datadog agent

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Setting up the Datadog Agent
```

Add a new Service Fabric Service to the solution.

![Add new Service Fabric Service](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/1801443/93102030-04c95300-f679-11ea-89f2-1de6160b5bc2.png)

> ![Setup the agent container](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/1801443/93107331-73111400-f67f-11ea-9a5e-06094e775177.png)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
![Setup the Datadog Agent container](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/1801443/93107331-73111400-f67f-11ea-9a5e-06094e775177.png)
```

> Replace the ServiceManifest.xml with this, being sure to replace `API_KEY_GOES_HERE` with your Datadog API key:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Replace the `ServiceManifest.xml` with the following text. Make sure you replace `API_KEY_GOES_HERE` with your Datadog API key:
```

  <ServiceTypes>
    <StatelessServiceType ServiceTypeName="DatadogAgentType" UseImplicitHost="true" />
  </ServiceTypes>
  <CodePackage Name="Code" Version="1.0.0">
    <EntryPoint>
      <ContainerHost>
        <ImageName>datadog/agent</ImageName>
      </ContainerHost>
    </EntryPoint>
    <EnvironmentVariables>
      <EnvironmentVariable Name="DD_API_KEY" Value="API_KEY_GOES_HERE"/>
      <EnvironmentVariable Name="DD_APM_ENABLED" Value="true"/>
      <EnvironmentVariable Name="DD_APM_NON_LOCAL_TRAFFIC" Value="true"/>
      <EnvironmentVariable Name="DD_DOGSTATSD_NON_LOCAL_TRAFFIC" Value="true"/>
      <EnvironmentVariable Name="DD_HEALTH_PORT" Value="5002"/>
    </EnvironmentVariables>
  </CodePackage>
  <ConfigPackage Name="Config" Version="1.0.0" />
  <Resources>
    <Endpoints>
      <Endpoint Name="DatadogTypeEndpoint" UriScheme="http" Port="5002" Protocol="http"/>
      <Endpoint Name="DatadogTraceEndpoint" UriScheme="http" Port="8126" Protocol="http"/>
      <Endpoint Name="DatadogStatsEndpoint" UriScheme="udp" Port="8125" Protocol="udp"/>
    </Endpoints>
  </Resources>
</ServiceManifest>
```

> Add the corresponding port bindings to the ServiceManfestImport within ApplicationManifest.xml

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Add the corresponding port bindings to the `ServiceManfestImport` in `ApplicationManifest.xml`.
```

```diff
  <ServiceManifestImport>
    <ServiceManifestRef ServiceManifestName="DatadogAgentPkg" ServiceManifestVersion="1.0.0" />
    <ConfigOverrides />
+   <Policies>
+     <ContainerHostPolicies CodePackageRef="Code">
+       <PortBinding ContainerPort="5002" EndpointRef="DatadogTypeEndpoint" />
+       <PortBinding ContainerPort="8126" EndpointRef="DatadogTraceEndpoint" />
+       <PortBinding ContainerPort="8125" EndpointRef="DatadogStatsEndpoint" />
+     </ContainerHostPolicies>
+   </Policies>
  </ServiceManifestImport>
```

## Installing the .NET Tracer

The tracer requires machine administrator permissions.

> Add the SetupAdminUser to the Principals section in the ApplicationManifest.xml. If the Principals section is missing, add it.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Add the `SetupAdminUser` to the `Principals` element in the `ApplicationManifest.xml` file. If the `Principals` section is missing, add it.
```

```
  <Principals>
    <Users>
      <User Name="SetupAdminUser">
        <MemberOf>
          <SystemGroup Name="Administrators" />
        </MemberOf>
      </User>
    </Users>
  </Principals>
```

> Within the ServiceManifestImport of the service responsible for deploying the tracer to the cluster, give the Setup script SetupAdminUser as the executing user.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In the `ServiceManifestImport` element of the service responsible for deploying the tracer to the cluster, set `SetupAdminUser` as the executing user for the `Setup` script.
```

```diff
  <ServiceManifestImport>
    <ServiceManifestRef ServiceManifestName="ServiceThatDeploysDatadogTracerPkg" ServiceManifestVersion="1.0.0" />
    <ConfigOverrides />
+   <Policies>
+     <RunAsPolicy CodePackageRef="Code" UserRef="SetupAdminUser" EntryPointType="Setup" />
+   </Policies>
  </ServiceManifestImport>
```  

> Within the ServiceManifest.xml of the service responsible for deploying the Datadog Tracer, add the reference to the install script.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In the `ServiceManifest.xml` file of the service responsible for deploying the Datadog Tracer, add the reference to the install script.
```

Reviewer: > Datadog Tracer

Did you mean Datadog Agent or .NET Tracer?

```diff
  <CodePackage Name="Code" Version="1.0.0">
+   <SetupEntryPoint>
+     <ExeHost>
+       <Program>DatadogInstall.bat</Program>
+       <WorkingFolder>CodePackage</WorkingFolder>
+     </ExeHost>
+   </SetupEntryPoint>
    <EntryPoint>
      <ExeHost>
        <Program>ServiceThatDeploysDatadogTracer.exe</Program>
        <WorkingFolder>CodePackage</WorkingFolder>
      </ExeHost>
    </EntryPoint>
  </CodePackage>
```

> Include the DatadogInstall.bat and DatadogInstall.ps1 scripts in the project responsible for deploying the tracer.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Include the `DatadogInstall.bat` and `DatadogInstall.ps1` scripts in the project responsible for deploying the tracer.
```

> Ensure that in the properties of both scripts, you set that they are copied to the output directory.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Configure both files to be copied to the output directory.
```

![Copy to output directory](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/1801443/93110062-d05a9480-f682-11ea-8fb4-7b266f576f68.png)

The latest representation of this install process is here: https://github.com/DataDog/azureservicefabric-dotnet-tracing-sample
 - [Batch Script](https://github.com/DataDog/azureservicefabric-dotnet-tracing-sample/blob/master/VotingWeb/DatadogInstall.bat)
 - [Powershell Script](https://github.com/DataDog/azureservicefabric-dotnet-tracing-sample/blob/master/VotingWeb/DatadogInstall.ps1)

### That's all folks
---

> The next time you deploy this application to the cluster, your application should start sending traces through to Datadog.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The next time you deploy this application to the cluster, your application should start sending traces to Datadog.
```

> This also enables custom statistics through the DogStatsD client and custom traces through the Datadog.Trace library.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This also enables custom metrics through DogStatsD and custom traces through the `Datadog.Trace` library.
```

Reviewer: We should link to both NuGet packages.

Reviewer 2: Could we please call the directory "blog/" rather than "blog*s*"?

Reviewer 2: Sorry, never mind, confused branch and folder :)
